[EXPLOSIVE MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[EERIE MUSIC]
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Have conscious beings from
other worlds and realities
contacted us?
Who are they?
What are they looking for?
Why don't they show
themselves openly?
I'm Ricardo González Corpancho.
Welcome aboard
"The Arc of Time."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Talking about close
encounters with nonhuman
intelligences is a very
controversial issue.
It shatters all our paradigms.
In this first episode
of "The Arc of Time,"
I decided to address
this exciting topic
from my own personal experience.
Those who know my
story know that I
affirm to have
established communication
with extraterrestrial
intelligences, beings
with human features similar
to us who I have been
able to meet physically, even in
the company of other witnesses.
For nearly 30 years, I've been
researching this phenomenon
of close encounters.
I've traveled the world
searching for signs of them,
and I've published my findings
in more than 20 books.
And I must say that,
despite all this,
I have more questions
than answers.
But how did it all start?
At the end of the 1970s, when
I was just a five-year-old boy,
I saw them for the first time.
It was at El Bosque
Country Club,
which is on the outskirts
of the city of Lima,
a place for my family to
relax on the weekends.
I remember that we had
stayed up very late,
and the stars were already
twinkling in the mountain sky.
That's when I saw some lights
moving over the hills and then
in the sky.
They would change speed
and direction erratically,
as if they were playing a game.
At such a young age, I didn't
have the slightest idea
what I had just witnessed.
In fact, you're now
looking at some pictures
from back then, one
of them with my father
at the country club I mentioned.
I remember that these first
experiences were accompanied
by dreams that were strange,
very lucid, very clear,
where I saw myself in the
garden of our house talking to--
although this sounds
like a delirium--
an extraterrestrial child,
a bald child with big eyes
who had descended in a type of
metallic egg, you could say.
He was a kind of cosmic friend.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Was it just a child's
imagination triggered
by the sightings
of these lights?
After these first experiences,
there was a long silence
until the summer of 1988.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> On that occasion, the
sighting that I witnessed
in Lima happened
in broad daylight.
It was a very shiny
object that moved silently
towards the Pacific Ocean.
Seeing it, I admit that I
experienced a wonderful feeling
in my chest, a strange
joy, as if I had always
known all of this.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I was not the only witness.
Throughout that year, 1988--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> --different media outlets
in Peru reported sightings all
over the country.
That's when I started
to investigate.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> But I must admit
that after a time,
I gave up my ambitions to
find out more about UFOs.
I had completed my
education and started out
in the marketing profession.
My concerns about
UFO mysteries seemed
to take a back seat to the
cares of everyday life.
However, the tipping point
would occur shortly thereafter
in 1993.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I was a young man of
almost 19 when they returned,
and this time, they
were here to stay.
I was studying in a desk
in my room, my bedroom.
I had to take some statistics
and accounting exams.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> And like every young
person who is in college,
you try to close your
books, close your notebooks,
and try to relax for a while.
Some people drink coffee.
Others listen to music.
I fell asleep from
the exhaustion.
I was in a state of catnapping.
And it was at that moment that
a voice in my own language,
in perfect Spanish, broke the
silence, speaking to me very
slowly and calmly in my head,
telling me, in a metallic tone,
don't stop searching.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> We are
extraterrestrial beings,
who are making contact with you.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> You will go through
preparation, and later,
you can meet us physically.
Obviously, I was surprised,
astonished, stunned.
I couldn't believe that
something like this
had happened.
I asked myself, have so
many hours of studying
notes and books left me dazed?
Had that triggered
something in my imagination?
And that's when this
voice resurfaced.
It arose again in my mind and
asked me, do you need proof?
Climb to the rooftop
terrace of your house,
and there you will see us.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I had nothing to lose.
And as I have said in different
interviews and in the media,
I went up to the terrace.
Along with my family,
we saw a luminous
object that emitted very
bright, reddish energy descend
on the house without
making any noise at all.
We were all astonished.
The object then moved toward
the mountains, Lima's mountain
range.
And we lost sight of it.
A few days later, media
outlets spoke of a wave
of UFO sightings in Peru.
That is to say that this
alleged mental contact
with an intelligence that
introduced themselves
as an extraterrestrial had
been confirmed with a sighting.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> But who were these beings?
Where did they come from?
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> How could I find answers
about what had happened to me?
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Something
incredible happened.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> After this amazing encounter
with a UFO on the terrace
of my house in the city of Lima,
I was on my way to the testing
center to take the
exams that I mentioned.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I was crossing a bridge
in the Miraflores area,
which is where I went to
school, when a woman--
right in the middle of
the Benavides Bridge,
an older woman approached me.
And out of nowhere,
she asked me,
do you know that the
brothers of the cosmos
are waiting for you
to make a decision?
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I was surprised.
How is it that this woman
knew that I had just
witnessed with my
family the appearance
of an object over my house?
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> And this experience
was preceded by an alleged
telepathic message.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> This woman immediately
gave me a handout, a flier,
announcing a series of
presentations in Lima
on the UFO phenomenon.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Although it sounds
dreamy, I took it as a sign.
I decided to follow
my intuition,
and I went to that ufology
conference in Lima.
And there I heard other
testimonials, other people--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Who also affirm to have had
these same close encounters,
these inexplicable
sightings and experiences.
I continued my
research, and I tried
to understand what
was happening to me.
That's how it all started.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> That is how I discovered
that these contacts had been
happening in Peru
since ancient times.
I was one of many
contact witnesses.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I was able to track that this
program of communicating with
nonhuman beings had begun in
the Andean region of Ancash.
I'm referring to a
very concrete case
that I have disseminated
worldwide the mystery of those
called the Apunians.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I traveled
repeatedly to the Andes,
attempting to trace this story,
a story that had begun with
ordinary witnesses--
sheepherders and farm people
of the Blanca mountain range.
According to my
research, there were
reports of close encounters
with beings with human features,
described as quite tall, over
6 and 1/2 feet in stature.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> These creatures,
men and women,
dressed in a kind
of metallic suit,
tightly-fitting their slender
and proportionate bodies.
Appearing in the
Andean Highlands
between 13 and 16,000
feet in altitude,
these sheepherders and farmers
of Ancash that I mentioned
had met with them.
And seeing that these beings
came out of the mountains,
they called them,
as I said, Apunians.
The term "Apu" is ancient.
It is native Quechua,
meaning something
like protector, a belief
that has been maintained
until today in Peru--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
--to describe the energy of
protection from the mountains.
And since these beings had
emerged from those mountains,
the farmers called them
the messengers of the Apus,
or Apunians.
But they actually were an
advanced extraterrestrial
civilization, which,
according to their messages,
had settled in the
Blanca mountain
range of Ancash
thousands of years ago.
They had underground
bases within
the great snowcapped mountains,
among them Huascaran.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I dare to say that close
encounters in Peru started back
then, in the decade
of the 1950s.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Some researchers, such
as Richard Greenwell,
lived in Peru and
echoed these news,
publishing books and
articles about UFO sightings
in the Peruvian Andes, above
all, an image from the 1960s,
where some objects appeared
right in the area that
I'm describing, the
Blanca mountain range.
These are the Yungay UFOs.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> These images, which
date back to 1967--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> --would have taken place
someplace in these mountains,
were widely reported
in the media.
In addition to Greenwell, US Air
Force Colonel Wendelle Stevens,
as well as the Spanish
journalist and researcher JJ
Benitez, investigated this case.
They came to the conclusion
that the images were authentic.
According to Ancash
contact witnesses,
these beings were trying
to get people's attention
because something incredible was
going to happen in this region.
And that was the case
three years later
with the Great
earthquake of 1970,
which claimed the lives
of over 50,000 people.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> It is believed
that this incident,
an intense seismic movement
that caused an avalanche
on the Blanca mountain range,
could not be avoided by these
extraterrestrials.
But they were trying
to create awareness
in the people of these villages
so that they could evacuate.
One of the contact
witnesses of that time,
Vlado Kapetanovic,
a Yugoslav who
had fled from the Second
World War to live in Peru
and worked as a plant technician
at the hydroelectric plant
in Huallanca in Pato Cañón.
He had spoken to
the mayors, and even
to a justice of the peace
and Yungay authorities
so that, according to the
messages of these beings,
the region could be evacuated.
But they wouldn't listen to
him, and Yungay was buried.
That's when Vlado Kapetanovic
decided to speak publicly
to the Peruvian media
about his close encounters
with these beings.
Kapetanovic, as I have
said in other interviews,
had been initiated by farmers
and shepherds of Ancash,
whom I mentioned.
Then he broke his
oath of silence
that he had made with
these humble people of Peru
to tell his story.
This was the beginning of
public close encounters in Peru.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> In the 1950s and '60s,
we find a lot of reports,
not only of UFO sightings,
but of close encounters.
And Latin America was really a
crucible for these experiences,
and not only in Peru.
For example, at the
end of the 1960s,
Maria Del Socorro Perez,
better known as Marla,
affirmed to have had meetings
with extraterrestrials
in her native Mexico.
She combined the
information that she
had received from these
beings with her research
and spiritual and
esoteric groups
and created a preparation
system based on techniques
for concentration,
meditation, including
information that allowed
her to help people to heal.
It is well-known in Mexico
that Marla offered seminars
to doctors and specialists
to help them with this
information--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> --that she had received
from extraterrestrial entities.
Marla's information also reached
South America and other parts
of the world, affecting the
first Spanish-speaking contact
groups.
A very specific case is that
of Costa Rican engineer Enrique
Castillo Rincón, who,
at the end of the 1960s,
observed unidentified flying
objects in Costa Rica, where
he was working as a
telecommunications engineer.
Later, his work took him to
Venezuela and to Colombia,
and it was there that
he prepared himself
thanks to Marla's techniques
based on concentration
and meditation that a woman
had taken to Colombia,
a woman named Karenka.
These concentration and
meditation techniques
that, in modern
ufology, some now call
close encounters of the fifth
type or the sci-fi protocols,
already existed in Latin
America for many decades.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Following, these techniques
Enrique Castillo Rincón managed
to receive a message to
experience a close encounter
invited by the extraterrestrials
in the month of November 1973.
It was then that he went to a
predetermined area in Colombia,
which is secret and no
one knows about, an area
where there was a lagoon.
And there he met beings with
human features, who allowed
him to board their ships.
Castillo Rincón
is considered one
of the most important contact
witnesses of Latin America.
He has been researched
by important scholars,
like J. Allen Hynek
and Dr. Jacques Vallée.
And, in fact, according to the
testimony of Enrique Castillo
Rincón, back then, he was
administered sodium pentothal,
also known as truth serum,
here in the United States.
And he could not have lied
about his close encounters
with Cromakan, Kristamerk,
and other entities who
allegedly came from Pleiades.
You may wonder, and how
is all of this related?
These alleged close
encounters in Mexico
or in Colombia with Castillo
Rincón with a story I'm
narrating from Peru--
because groups came to Lima
linked by this information
the techniques were
contact for meditation
to generate extraordinary
states of consciousness,
to seek out a message
with these beings.
And they interacted with the
first ufology research group
in all of the Americas.
I'm referring to the Peruvian
Institute of Interplanetary
Relations, a very pompous
name, the IPRI, which
had been founded by the great
researcher Jose Carlos Paz
Garcia Corrochano.
It was then that
this information
became part of this
ufology group, which
began to try to receive messages
or communication according
to the protocol that Enrique
Castillo Rincón and his groups
had followed already
in 1972 and 1973.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> But that's not all.
In a place, which today is
famous in Peru, Chilca, which
is located about 37
miles south of Lima,
Maruja Soler De Acervo, the lady
of the desert, as we call her,
was having contact experiences.
It was the decade of the 1960s.
And at the end of
that decade, she
began to receive messages
and communication
and to have paranormal-type
unexplained experiences
in her home in Papa
Leon XIII in Chilca.
Her gripping experience
happened between 1970 and 1972,
and that's when Maruja,
as she was known, or Maru,
decided to ask for
help for someone
to explain what was
happening to her.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> And she asked her
son, Juan Acervo,
to go to the IPRI
that I mentioned,
the Peruvian Institute of
Interplanetary Relations,
to try to get some type
of advice or information.
Juan Acervo approaches
Jose Carlos Paz Garcia
and tells him, my
family is receiving
messages, having
sightings, experiences
in the area of Chilca.
This information is historical
because from the syncretism
of experiences is born--
at least according
to my research--
what is called the Rama group,
one of the most important
extraterrestrial
contact movements
in the history of
Hebrew America.
It started in the summer of 1974
with brothers Carlos and Sixto
Paz Wells, two authentic
contact witnesses who,
as teenagers 18 or 19 years
old, received messages,
communications like
those received earlier
by Maruja Soler De Acervo,
or Castillo Rincón.
And they met in Chilca, in
fact, in the summer home
of the same Maruja
Soler De Acervo.
And there is where the sightings
and experiences happened,
but all this activity was
limited to the environment
of the contact groups.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> The message still needed
to reach more people.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> That's when Carlos
Paz Wells, Charlie,
as he was known back then,
received an important message
from an extraterrestrial entity,
who called himself Kulba,
an opinion like those described
in the reports from Ancash
in the Peruvian Andes.
And this entity allowed him to
invite the Spanish journalist
JJ Benitez to go out into the
desert on September 7, 1974,
and verify the appearance
of these objects
through a pre-arranged
contact appointment.
That is, these beings
indicated on what day,
at what time, and in
what concrete place
they were going to appear.
Deciding occurred.
And when JJ Benitez
returned to Spain he
published his first book UFOs--
an SOS to Humanity.
It wasn't the first
book he wrote,
but it was the first
that was published.
It became a bestseller.
And then there began to emerge
different contact groups
throughout Latin America.
This story, which may be
unknown to many, which did not
start in Peru, but in
different countries,
and it has followed a common
thread, a common thread where
yours truly is just
one of many contact
witnesses of this exciting
story that continues on.
Investigating all
this, it was evident
that I was just one
of very many witnesses
who had come into contact
with those beings.
And it was precisely
there in the Chilca desert
when I saw them
for the first time.
August 30, 1997, was the first
time I saw one of these beings,
who we know as
Apunians, face to face.
I had been invited to
the desert of Chilca.
I went out with a very
small group for these beings
it is easier to initiate
communication or have
an experience with individuals,
a few people, or small groups.
They say their proximity
can affect our psyche
in an unpredictable
way, and they
don't want to destroy
our social context
as we face a contact,
which obviously breaks
through our paradigms
and the type of life
that we usually live.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> They only contact certain
people who they consider will
be able to endure these
types of experiences,
who have some type
of resilience,
and that the experience itself
will not drastically affect
their social or family life.
And I want to
carefully point out
that I'm only referring to
this type of close encounter
because there are
different experiences.
I'm talking about close
encounters with beings
with human features, whose
intentions are friendly,
pleasant, ethical,
positive, according
to our perception,
who have tried
to respect our observations
about these incredible
experiences.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> With that contact, in
fact, when we were camping
in the desert, there in Chilca,
objects first appeared floating
over our camp, zigzagging,
emitting large flashes
of light, which even
lit up the ground,
a light that seemed to have some
type of weight or density that
would fall to the ground.
And when you lowered your
hands to the desert floor,
to the ground, and you picked
up the dirt with your fingers,
you would have the
light in your hands.
It was a strange light that
these objects produced.
That's when a mental
voice asked me
to come closer to
the area of a ravine
in Chilca, where
we were camping.
You could hear some very
loud metallic sounds--
clank, clank-- over and over.
It really scared us.
It really got our attention.
Imagine, in the
middle of the desert,
in the middle of the night--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Listening to those
strange sounds--
clank, clank-- over and over.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> It was remarkable.
>> Then I saw a very tall
silhouette moving toward
our camp.
I approached it, despite
being very nervous, of course.
When I arrived, I would
say about 80 or 100 feet
from that figure--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I would estimate that it
was at least 8 feet tall--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Truly a giant.
>> This being with human
features was dressed in a type
of metallic silvery suit.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I could see the color because
a ring of light illuminated
the ground around his feet,
which traveled from the ground
up--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> As if he had done this
deliberately so I could see him
more clearly, and maybe
to test my emotions,
how I would react
to the experience.
That minimalist suit
covered him completely,
just leaving his hands
and his face uncovered.
I can't describe it in
more detail, because I
was some distance away.
But it was a human face of
what seemed to be a younger
man, maybe 35, 37 years of age.
This being, who introduced
himself as Antarel,
asked me to accompany him
towards an object that
had arisen from the
bottom of the hills,
floating about 100
feet off the ground,
giving off a dim, golden light.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I was so nervous, not just
because I felt that these
beings had hostile or
negative intentions,
but because it was so
strange, so different.
It was the first time that
it had happened to me that I
didn't dare take one more step.
That's when this entity,
Antarel, who I mentioned,
told me in perfect Spanish
in my mind to stay calm.
And when I was better prepared,
we would resume the contact
and accompany them
inside their ships.
Then he left.
I went back to the camp.
The ship lit up, rose
above the desert.
We all saw when the object left.
And I remember that it left
a big emotional impact on me.
I broke down in tears
because I had missed out,
at least at that time, on
the experience of a lifetime.
But I was also left
with a feeling of peace
upon seeing these beings.
Like I was saying, at least
those who have contacted us
behaved appropriately toward us.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> They had seen that we did
not have sufficient preparation.
It was like a test, a trial.
Our emotions took
over, and they decided
to postpone the contact.
That is, we would
have to go through,
as I was told in the first
message, a training, a kind
of preparation to break
through our mental paradigms
about extraterrestrial
contact in order
to have these experiences.
But why me?
Why us--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> --ordinary people who
aren't important at all?
From such a humble
country as Peru,
considered a developing
country, why not
contact an important scientist
or a high-ranking military
officer, highly
credible witnesses?
It's not that they
haven't done that.
The thing is that those
highly credible witnesses fear
derision and questioning,
and others have more
of a behind-the-scenes role.
What these beings told us
is that everyday people who
are having these
extraordinary experiences
would begin to generate
a type of critical mass,
great social pressure,
so that, little
by little, other
ordinary people,
like those who are
hearing me right now,
don't sit alone and
know that many of us
have had these extraordinary
contact experiences.
This was the first physical
contact with Antarel.
Due to the moderate
distance, I couldn't
see details of his face.
But on other occasions, we have
been able to observe, witness
that his eyes were
very penetrating,
as if, through them,
you were immersed
in a photograph of the universe.
And I'm not saying
that poetically.
I actually mean it.
That's what they make you feel.
At that moment, that
indelible August 30, 1997,
I felt like the desert
was swallowing me up.
I was static.
I couldn't even move.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> My heart was pounding.
Even though I knew that these
experiences were authentic,
and I had had some previous
experiences, these sightings I
discussed, the telepathic
messages, everything changes.
Everything is very
different when
you meet them face to face.
You say to yourself, it's
an overwhelming verification
that this is true.
How do I go back into the world?
How do I tell people
that I went through this?
There is no turning
back, because I saw them.
But I decided to take
charge and tell my story.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> So what do they want from us?
According to their
messages, various groups
of extraterrestrial
origin are already
living with human
beings on the planet.
They do not officially
introduce themselves,
because they are observing in
silence our process of learning
and evolution.
And they don't want to
interfere directly in it.
Apparently, when ancient
extraterrestrial visits
did so in the remote
past, the results
were not what was expected.
And they want to avoid having
that problem be repeated.
For now, their contact is
occasional and very isolated,
with the precision
of a surgeon, you
could say, connecting
with, as I mentioned,
ordinary people, as
part of this program
of anthropological study
but, at the same time,
to begin to develop a
movement of witnesses,
pushing toward great revelation.
And this revelation should
be gradual and controlled.
Throughout these
years, I've delivered
evidence of our
contact experience
to the point of having
invited on eight occasions
journalists and renowned
UFO phenomenon researchers
to prescheduled sightings.
That is, these beings,
as I already mentioned,
can indicate the
place, the date,
and the time of the
sighting so that this may
be corroborated by specialists.
Among the most famous cases,
I could mention Rob Freeman,
Grant Cameron, the Italian
ufology network, and especially
Paola Harris, former assistant
of the father of ufology,
US astrophysicist
J. Allen Hynek.
She didn't just go with us
to a preprogrammed sighting
in Northern California
on mystical Mount Shasta.
But also, in that
unforgettable year of 2014,
Paola Harris was able to
meet this same Antarel
in person when he
appeared to her
and a large group of witnesses,
an experience that has
been heard around the world.
Because Paola Harris, being
a close encounter and ufology
researcher, especially with
highly credible witnesses,
ended up also becoming
a witness herself.
And that's what this issue does.
It breaks through your
paradigms and tells you
that in order to
understand this phenomenon,
you have to experience
it inside yourself.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> This is a brief
synthesis of my story--
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> --which is part of the
history of contactism and Latin
America, in my case, a path
that has not been easy at all.
In fact, due to my exposure to
public media when I was very
young, I was fired from my job.
I was a science and
medicine commentator.
However, I defended my truth,
and I have moved forward,
dedicated full-time to
investigate and disclose
this secret that makes
many people uncomfortable,
a secret that links these
beings with the actual origins
of humanity.
We will unveil this
in upcoming episodes.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> I'm Ricardo
González Corpancho.
I'll be waiting for
you on the next journey
aboard "The Arc of Time."
[EERIE MUSIC]